Okay.
Let's go through and just demonstrate
that the formulas I'm giving are exactly
the formulas that r is using when
it performs its calculations.
So, I'm going to use the data
diamond diamond dataset and
that's in the UsingR library,
so I'm going to load those.
Define y, x and
n like I always do with this dataset, so
I don't have to type so much.
My beta one is the correlation
between the y and
the x times the standard deviation of y
divided by the standard deviation of x.
And my beta nojught is the mean of the y's
minus beta1 times the mean of the x.
My residuals, oop, my residuals are my
response y minus the predicted values,
beta nought plus beta1 x, so here I've
just carried the subtraction through.
There's my residuals.
My estimate of the standard
deviate of the,
standard deviation around
the regression line,
the variability around the regression
is the average of the residuals,
except remember, we're dividing by n
minus 2 instead of n and to get it to be
a standard deviation rather than
a variance, I'm going to square root it.
There's my sigma.
That's my estimate of sigma from
the previous several pages.
My sums of my squares of x's is just
the numerator of the variance calculation,
but let's just do it directly.
It's x minus its mean squared and
sum of the, adding those up.
So let me get that and
then my standard error from my
beta nought from my intercept.
If I just simply plug into the formula,
there, I've written it out.
And my standard error for my beta1,
which is I think the more useful and,
and mentally important formula to
commit to memory is the sigma,
the variance, the standard
deviation around the regression
line divided by the sum of
the squares of the x's.
The sum of the square deviations
of the x's around their mean.
Okay.
There we go.
There's the standard error for beta1,
I'm going to create the two t statistics.
Which if you're testing
a hypothesis that beta1 is zero or
beta nought is zero,
then that's just going to be the estimate.
Here's my estimate divided
by its standard error.
And so we don't have to
subtract off the true value,
because the true value is assumed
to be zero under this hypothesis.
And so for my beta1 hypothesis,
it's going to be beta1 divided
by its standard error and then I'm
going to calculate my two p values.
Again, if you've taken
the inference class,
then how you go from a t statistic to
a p value should not be a great leap.
But in this case, it's going to
be twice my t probability where
in both these cases,
the estimates are larger than zero so the,
so I'm going to look at the probability
of being this statistic or
larger and I'm going to double those
two t probabilities [SOUND] and
them I'm going to create my
coefficient table created manually by
me without having done any lm or
any built in higher level R function.
And I'm going to give it,
its rownames and its column names, so
that it looks like R's output.
And then I'm, now I'm going to
show you the easy way to do it.
Okay.
So here let me print it out.
There it is printed out and then now,
I'm just going to do fit, lm,
my response y is a linear
relationship with my predictor x and
then I'm going to get
the summary of the coefficients.
You'll see everything is exactly the same.
So, if you didn't follow all this,
it's, it's not too big of a deal.
I just wanted to show you for
once that the formulas that I'm giving
you are exactly the right formulas and
we verified them computationally
by checking them out on a dataset.
Maybe check them out on another
dataset just to verify for yourself.
Let's go through getting
a confidence interval.
So my fit,
the variable fit was the output of lm.
Let's see what happens
if I type summary fit.
You get the full output from lm.
So it gives you facts about the residuals,
it give you the coefficients,
the estimated coefficients.
The Standard Errors, the t values and
the associated p values.
These are all for test of whether or
not the intercept is 0 or the slope is 0.
Now of course 0 intercept
may not be of interest, but
almost always a test of
a 0 slope is of interest.
But it also gives you
the residual standard deviation,
the degrees of freedom The r-squared,
the adjusted r-squared,
which we'll talk about
later on in the class.
Let's go ahead and
generate our confidence intervals for
our intercept and for our slope.
So now I've assigned that summary.
The summary from the lm
statement to an object in R, but
I just wanted the table part, so
I'm grabbing the, just the coefficient.
So, it's right here.
See, I'm just grabbing
the coefficient table.
So let me just print out that variable,
just to show you what it looks like.
It's just that table part,
just the estimates, the standard errors,
the t values, and the p values.
Okay.
So, our confidence interval
is just going to be estimate.
So here's for the intercept,
estimate plus or minus
the 97.5 t quantile degrees of freedom,
just to make
sure I get the degrees of freedom right,
so I don't even have to think at all,
I'm grabbing fit$ degrees of freedom and
then times the standard error.
There, I'm grabbing the standard error.
And then I'm doing it for the slope, which
is in the second row of the first column.
So the slope estimate plus or
minus the releventy quantile
times its standard error,
which is in the two two
cell of this table here.
And then the, slope is going to be
interpreted in change in Singatore,
Singapore dollar price per
one mass increase in carats,
in carat, the unit for the x,
the predictor variable.
But I, I might want it for a 0.1 increase,
because as we mentioned earlier or
looking at the data, a one carat
increase was kind of a big increase.
So why don't I divide my whole intervil,
interval by ten.
So let's run both of them.
And particularly,
focus in on this later one,
the confidence interval for the slope.
So, it's saying, with 95% confidence,
we estimate that a 0.1 carat
increase in diamond size is going
to result in a 356 to 389 increase
in price in, in Singapore dollars.